ABBY: This is where it all starts.
We are preparing
for the National Competition.
Watch that right elbow.
I would like to see her
compete with you this weekend.
This weekend?
Vivi auditioned.
I thought it was ridiculous.
Every weekend we go to new competition.
(cheering)
ABBY: These moms are ridiculous.
They are in a bar drinking,
and their kid needs to be on stage
in five minutes.
You're in the bar having a drink,
and her headpiece is falling off.
Abby, mistakes happen. We're human.
You are. Mistakes like that
don't happen to me.
I'm done.
Phoenix was rough.
You guys got your butts kicked.
The new number will be hot.
It's gonna be sizzling.
And that's way too sexy.
CHRISTI: I guess she's setting us up
for another Maddie, Chloe showdown.
MADDIE: Chloe is my biggest competitor.
I think I'm a little bit better than her
because I've won many awards than her.
HOLLY: That was over the top,
inappropriate for a little girls.
That left me very uncomfortable
to see my little girl smacking her butt.
Well, then maybe you should not come.
When a parent opens their mouth,
they are ruining their child.
SINGER: ♪ Get up, get on the floor ♪
♪ My world is with my girls
living on the dance floor ♪
(tense music playing)
Phoenix was rough.
You guys got your butts kicked.
ANNOUNCER: Third place goes to
Abby Lee Dance Company
for "Party, Party, Party."
ABBY: Here in Pittsburgh,
you have won everything,
but it's clearly a different story
when you get on a plane
and fly across the country.
For years, I took the kids by myself.
I made sure their hair was right.
I made sure the makeup was right.
I put the headpiece on.
All the mothers wanna go now
because they are reliving
their childhood through all of you.
And that's when the trouble happens.
I am the leader.
I am the teacher.
You do what I say.
When your mother is telling you
something else to do,
that becomes a conflict.
Do you understand that?
Now, Nia, how do you think you did?
What do you need to improve?
ABBY: Yes.
Very sloppy.
The feet, the legs,
the shoulders, your arms.
The same mistakes over and over and over,
and that pulls the group down.
MADDIE: Abby yells at people
a little bit too much,
but I think that's just because
she wants them to be a better dancer,
and she really cares about us.
Chloe, the headband was bad.
(cheering)
Next time, what are you gonna do?
Make sure my headpiece stays on.
Could you have prevented that?
Yes.
Abby is very scary.
Abby's terrifying to me.
She has a deep voice
that you will be very afraid of.
Who's afraid of it? You?
-I don't know.
-I'm a little afraid of it.
See?
Okay.
The new number will be
called "Electricity."
Everybody say that.
ALL: "Electricity."
ABBY: The group number "Electricity"
is what I would refer to
as West Coast Jazz or LA Jazz.
It's hot.
It's sassy.
It's what you would see in a music video.
So hopefully it's gonna step these kids up
to the next level,
and we're going to see something
from them we've never seen before.
Maddie, because you were
great this weekend...
(cheering)
...you didn't give me any trouble,
your mother didn't give me any trouble,
you're gonna be in the front,
in the center
for the beginning of the routine.
MADDIE: I'm not trying to be rude,
but I'm probably one of the best dancers
in my group.
Everybody's goal should be right here.
Yes?
Okay.
Two solos will be competing.
Maddie, you will be
doing one of your solos,
and, Chloe, you will be
doing one of your solos.
CHRISTI: Melissa does not like me
because Chloe's Maddie's
biggest competition.
She doesn't like that,
and to be honest, I don't like Melissa.
I know her true colors.
All right. Everybody up.
I wanna start this number.
Moms, you are dismissed. Thank you.
(uplifting music playing)
ABBY: Up, down, down.
Switch foot.
Step, hit.
Ball change.
This weekend we're going
to StarQuest Competition
in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
And the girls are doing all new numbers.
Sassy, that's not skipping.
Here we are, sitting here
like a bunch of jackasses.
I would say Maddie and Chloe
go back and forth
for the best dancer in the group.
And my goal this season really
is for Chloe to beat Maddie,
so if she wants to be the best,
she has to beat the best.
And Maddie's the best.
Listen, dance good, okay?
Okay.
CHRISTI: I do feel like I push her,
but it's my job as Chloe's mother
to motivate her
because I feel Chloe has star potential.
KELLY: Did you hear that talk in there?
Be like Maddie.
HOLLY: Who was at
the bottom of the pyramid?
Nia's at the bottom of the pyramid,
and it's not right.
Brooke's at the bottom of the pyramid.
No, Nia's at the bottom of the pyramid.
KELLY: So is Brooke.
She's with Nia and McKenzie.
Well, okay, but Nia--
Step up and it's like, ha.
Yeah?
Throw it out there. Do it again.
HOLLY: Anyone else, there was
something wrong with what they did,
but Maddie had nothing wrong.
She was perfect.
That makes my kids feel bad.
I guess she's setting us up
for another Maddie, Chloe showdown.
It'll be the same old, same old.
You know, Abby will be working with Maddie
right before she goes on stage,
and it will be me
in the back hallway with my daughter
because that's how it always is.
All the focus is on Maddie, and then,
there's nothing left for anybody else.
Right.
(upbeat music playing)
MELISSA: I don't care
what the other moms think
because my kid is the star.
And maybe Maddie's the favorite
because she's the best,
and she follows the rules,
and she pays attention.
My goal for Maddie this season
is to win Dancer of the Year nationally.
Maddie has what it takes to be a star.
She has drive, she has determination,
and she's definitely a perfectionist.
I think she's the best dancer
in our studio.
I don't think the other moms
are jealous of me.
They're jealous of my daughter
because she gets all the attention,
and she's front and center
in a lot of the dances.
ABBY: One, two, two.
Push.
Pretty.
My mom is a brilliant dance teacher,
and I am continuing that legacy.
When I was a young dance student,
I realized that my talents
were better used for choreography
and behind the scenes
than on stage performing,
so I started my own company
at the age of 14.
You have to be really hot, sexy.
I don't make that move Brooke's doing.
That's way too sexy.
Make it like you're 17 years old.
We're going to Lancaster this weekend
for a competition called StarQuest.
We don't usually do StarQuest
'cause Lancaster's
not like a West Coast town,
so I don't know quite how Lancaster's
gonna react to this dance.
(laughs)
ABBY: One, two, three, four.
I created a new number
after being on the West Coast.
In Phoenix,
the kids are dressed so skimpy,
and were so hot and dynamic on stage
that I wanted to do something similar.
This is way too much.
I don't know how they keep up with it.
Five, six, seven, eight.
You set the tone for the whole dance,
Chloe, so be amazing.
I don't care what anybody says.
It's my studio.
It's my company.
The children need a challenge.
They need something edgy.
I don't have my own children,
but I teach children
from three-years-old to 18.
I practically raise these kids,
and then I send them off
to be professional dancers.
There's a quote that I know
that I often use,
the best parenting that a parent can do
is to raise their child
to survive on their own.
And that's what I do.
I train a kid.
I give them every survival skill
that they need
to go out in the world
and make it as a professional dancer.
And one, two.
Turn those hands in.
Right. More butt.
It's all about the butt.
(uplifting music playing)
A new girl came in to audition.
-Oh. How old is she?
-HOLLY: Really?
MELISSA: She's 6 and 1/2,
and I think Abby's
gonna put her in our group.
-I don't know.
-Six?
And if you think I'm perky
and happy, oh, my gosh,
just wait and see.
She reminds me of like Mr. Roger's wife.
Like, oh my gosh,
she kept highfiving her daughter.
You go, girlfriend.
And I was like, oh, my gosh.
She's actually a dance teacher.
CHRISTI: Well, if she's a dance teacher,
why isn't she teaching her daughter?
MELISSA: I have no idea.
I can tell she's a very positive, upbeat,
-kind of a nice person.
-Ooh, boy.
And Abby is so the opposite.
Wait till she gets a load of this.
I already have to deal with Melissa
being a perky, goody two shoes.
Oh, Jesus.
Now we have this new mom coming in
who's like snobby Poppins,
and she can be Melissa's perky bookend.
-MADDIE: Seven?
-MELISSA: Here comes Abby.
Go, go, go. Stretch.
Abby's coming.
-Hey, guys.
-ALL: Hi.
ABBY: Is everybody here
for the "Electricity"
competition group?
-ALL: Yes.
-ABBY: Yes. Okay.
Moms, before we rehearse--
actually Sandy is here,
and she's gonna do a costume fitting,
so we can get this finished for today.
All right? Excited?
ALL: Yeah.
-Are they pretty?
-What color are they?
ALL: (gasps)
ABBY: Yeah, let's go.
HOLLY: New costumes
are always really exciting.
You never know what we're gonna get,
but I don't add up the bills
because it's too much money
to add up the bills and dance.
I think I'd pass out on the floor.
ABBY: All right.
Let me call the girls,
and I'll get them one at a time for you.
Nia?
(suspenseful music playing)
(laughs)
HOLLY: Where's the rest of her costume?
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Nia?
(laughs)
Where's the rest of her costume?
That's it.
We need to spice it up.
I guess we're going with skin to win?
ABBY: Yes, so French twist
with the curls on the top.
How are we wearing the socks?
ABBY: Two inches
above the knee, bare legs,
and use your double stick lingerie tape.
And we're give you the stones
when we're finished with the fittings,
and you can stoning them.
So you're good.
You want to send the next girl in, please?
Oh, Lord.
We're headed to Lancaster, Pennsylvania
for a competition and home of Amish
buggies and bonnets.
Our regular dance would cause
a few people out in Lancaster
to have a stroke, let alone these things.
Guys, we gotta wear stuff like this.
When we were in Phoenix last weekend,
everybody had outfits on like this.
Oh, showing off your sexy little bod.
Just we want these on the side, I guess.
They look like little tarts.
They do not look like little girls.
KELLY: They don't think of it
as their dancing in a bra.
-It's their costume.
-But you know what?
There are people in the audience
who see them,
and they think they're dancing in a bra.
CHRISTI: We've had costumes smaller.
It's that it looks sleazy.
HOLLY: I think it's too sexy.
I absolutely think it's too sexy.
You know what?
Can we not use the word sexy?
Can we just say skimpy?
HOLLY: You can say scandalous.
You can say sassy.
It is still too much for their age.
And she'll be with 800 other kids
that look the same way.
If you don't like what I'm doing,
go open your own studio.
These moms come to me
because of my credentials,
and of course my success rate,
but then they wanna tell me
how to do my business.
Not gonna happen.
Chloe, let's go.
Oh, I can't look.
ABBY: Chloe, let me ask you,
how do you feel about the costume?
You didn't know any better.
It's just embarrassing for our daughters
to be up there dressed like that.
They look like prosti-tots.
How would your dad feel
about that costume?
ABBY: You know what?
Until he's here painting
and working and cleaning,
he doesn't get to say.
(dramatic music playing)
CATHY: Abby only demands three things
if you want to be on her competition team,
time, dedication, and money.
I have all three,
and I'm gonna spend what it takes.
That's why I'm driving 2 and 1/2 hours
to Abby's school
because she makes kids stars,
and I think she can make Vivi a star.
Hey.
Sorry, I'm late. Are you all warmed up?
-Ready to go? Yes?
-Yes, we are. Yes, we are.
Okay, how about if
you go ahead over there.
-Okay.
-And you're gonna play my music.
Maybe you could grab a stool.
VIVI: My favorite thing to do
to dance and play baseball.
ABBY: Passé that knee.
Passé, no parallel.
Parallel, like in jazz class. Passé.
Straight, honey.
ABBY: I get these kids in here
from other dance studios all the time,
and none of them
have been taught proper terminology,
so instead of saying a grand jeté,
they're like flying saucer leap.
And I'm like what is that?
That's such a joke.
That's where you wanna be in the air.
That's what I wanna see.
Now get up and do it.
Let's go.
Vivian needs a lot of work.
She really does, but I'm gonna go ahead
and let her compete this weekend
because I think it would be good for her.
KELLY: Melissa, is that the new girl?
Mm-hmm.
Does she come from a competition studio?
MELISSA: She said that
she was on a competition team, but--
-It doesn't look like it.
-MELISSA: Uh-uh.
ABBY: I've been able to work with Vivian
a little more closely this week,
so I'm going to let her do
a little jazz duet with McKenzie.
(laughing)
Her mother has money.
ABBY: I have a group of moms at my studio
that have caused many students to leave.
They sit upstairs
in the observation mezzanine
and degrade other people's children.
(laughs)
ABBY: Go get a job
and come back and pick your kid up
at the end of the night.
Oh. Oh, my goodness.
She fell over.
(laughs)
(upbeat music playing)
MELISSA: For StarQuest,
Abby has Vivi and McKenzie on a duet.
I'm very surprised
that Abby is letting Vivi
on the competition team for this weekend.
Oh, she just stepped on my daughter.
ABBY: Turn, two, three.
Other foot.
Now you go--boom--
to the right.
What's the mom like?
MELISSA: She's very nice.
Very nice.
CHRISTI: I'm just getting kind of hesitant
she's allowed in there.
KELLY: But she's allowed
because she's a dance teacher
and one of Abby's colleagues.
Okay. I think I've done enough
with the routine right now.
I'm gonna see what they can do together,
so I'm gonna to send you upstairs.
-Okay?
-Okay. Okay.
ABBY: Thank you.
All right, girls. Let's figure this out.
Go back. Hand to foot, foot.
MELISSA: Hold on, one more.
-Hi.
MELISSA: Girls, this is Cathy.
CATHY: Hi.
Hi, Cathy.
You guys are rhinestoning, huh?
KELLY: For this weekend.
CATHY: Okay.
So somebody's gonna
rhinestone mine, right?
-No.
-(Cathy laughs)
You gotta rhinestone your own.
Oh. Well, what happens
if you don't know how to sew?
You need to learn.
CATHY: We have a seamstress
at our studio that does all this.
The moms don't do any of it.
We're way more organized
than you guys are.
I found it weird
that she owns a dance studio
and she's bringing her daughter
two hours away
to a different dance studio.
I mean, I would think that
you would make your dance studio
be good enough for your own child.
Why don't you
-take your daughter to your studio?
-CATHY: Go back to my studio.
Go back to my studio.
I don't care what these moms think of me.
All I care is that I get Vivi
where she needs to be
and that is to the top.
And do you guys use Swarovski crystals?
-ALL: Yes.
-CATHY: Yeah, so do we.
ABBY: Watch--don't land
on that heel on that jeté.
Smile.
This week Chloe and Maddie
both have new solos.
Maddie will be doing
an emotional lyrical routine to "Cry,"
and Chloe will be doing
a musical theater number
to "Baby Mine."
Again, you're not landing a plié.
Plié.
MADDIE: I dance seven days
a week from 4:00 to 10:00,
and we don't get home until like 11:45.
ABBY: Don't bounce in that split.
Plié.
MADDIE: Chloe is my biggest competitor.
I think I'm a little bit better than her
because I've won many awards than her.
My daughter's supposed to be
doing her solo this weekend?
Uh, why isn't she working with my kid?
Why is she in there doing this?
-Is this competing?
-'Cause her last name isn't Ziegler.
CHRISTI: Maddie's been in class
this week working on her solo,
and you know, it's perfected
and it's wonderful and perfect,
and then she's going to send
my daughter out on stage
kind of looking like a fool.
Through this part, wait.
Are you--
Chloe, get down.
You have to do it.
Okay. My foot hurts.
I know, Clo.
I often wonder if Abby gave Chloe
1/20 of the same attention
that she gave Maddie
what kind of dancer my daughter could be.
The only one giving her
attention really is me,
and I'm not a qualified dance teacher.
CHLOE: My hip really hurts.
CHRISTI: We don't have a choice.
This is all we have,
and we have to do it so go.
It really upsets me.
It's not just me it's hurting.
It's hurting my child,
and I'm the one
who keeps bringing my child back.
Pretty, smile.
I wonder what it's doing
to her psyche to always
be held down and not given
the same opportunities to excel.
Smile.
That's fake.
Come on.
Let's do it one more time with the music.
SINGER: ♪ And she's my baby ♪
Chloe, you can stretch your arms.
SINGER: ♪ My favorite toy ♪
CHRISTI: Keep going.
Faster there.
Arch your back.
SINGER:
♪ Talking about my sweet baby, ooh ♪
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: Give me a hands out,
hands out, let him go.
Yes, so we're just adding two steps in.
CHRISTI:
I pay Abby an exorbitant amount of money
so Chloe will get the same attention
that she gives Maddie
because Maddie gets all
these extra classes,
all this extra attention,
and Chloe gets none of that.
They say, oh, no. Everything's fair.
It's not fair.
But I'm not gonna have
you treat me like this.
-I'm an adult.
-Act like one.
Remember, I pay your bills.
You work for me.
Tomorrow is the competition,
and I have no doubt in my mind
that we are going to blow
this thing out of the water.
Chloe is one of my strongest dancers.
She's really coming along nicely.
There's a few technical issues
she needs to work on,
but mainly applying corrections.
She needs to apply corrections quickly
and then move on.
And one, two, three, four, five, six.
I brought costumes this day.
ABBY: Nia, is that an attitude turn?
You're out of the picture, Chloe.
Get in tighter.
Five, six, seven, eight, and a one.
Hello.
-MELISSA: Hi.
-Hi.
This is Vivi.
Hi, Vivi.
CATHY: So what are you guys doing?
CHRISTI: Stoning.
-You're doing what? Rhinestoning again?
-Yep.
CATHY: Yeah. Look, I don't stone.
I'm no stoner.
(apprehensive music playing)
I'm just gonna sit down.
CHRISTI: So Melissa,
what's there to do where we're going?
-Amish country.
-MELISSA: The outlets are right there.
-The shopping.
-Oh, there's an outlet?
MELISSA: Are you kidding me? They're huge.
What are you going to shop for
in Lancaster?
Well, Amish stuff.
-KELLY: You're gonna be changing costumes.
-Cheese.
KELLY: Or need somebody
-to change the costumes for you too?
-I have a changer.
-I'll have a changer with me.
-KELLY: Oh, God.
Step, relevé.
Up.
CHRISTI: Oh, my God.
I am so stressed out about everything
I need to do at home.
How do you guys get your housework done?
I don't. Like I'm trying to make it home
before my husband
because there's Cheerios
all over my kitchen,
and I have to sweep quick
before he comes home.
I have to vacuum,
and I need to fold all my laundry
and pack for tomorrow.
SINGER: ♪ I don't really care ♪
♪ Take me, take me there ♪
♪ Can you feel it? ♪
♪ Can you take it? ♪
♪ Baby, it's all... ♪
I didn't cook dinner for my kids.
Like my house is a mess.
I have laundry everywhere.
Ugh.
The studio overtakes my life.
It's the night before a competition
and Chloe needs sleep.
She's been going from 6:30 in the morning
until 9:30 at night.
It'll all get done.
When?
This little baby's been out
since who knows
what time this morning, and...
No, she's not.
She needs to go home and eat dinner,
but not just that, I need to go home.
Abby, I need to know
what's going on with Chloe's dance
'cause we can't stay until 9:00 tonight.
I haven't been home
since 8:00 this morning.
Matt needs her for tap.
CHRISTI: But, she's
gonna dance until 9:00.
She's a little girl.
Seven hours of dance is a lot.
ABBY: Then don't audition
for any Broadway shows
'cause you'll be working 12 hours a day.
Christi's telling me
she's concerned about Chloe.
She's concerned about the new music
and her performance this weekend
that she wants to leave early.
And my older students that have gone on
to be Broadway professionals,
they would have stayed in
this room until midnight.
She can sleep tomorrow
on the bus for five hours.
What do you want to do?
I have to get to ready
for the morning tomorrow and...
CHRISTI: And you have a ton of homework.
...a ton of homework
and I have to go to bed early.
You wanna leave, leave.
(sad music playing)
I know you're tired.
I know we were supposed
to come home early,
but you have to finish your solo.
But it's finished.
We just need to fix a part.
I know you do, but it's an hour.
And I can come back and get you, okay?
You know, Clo, I'm sorry.
If you wanna come home, you can,
but then we should probably
pull your solo.
Okay?
I know I promised you, and I'm so sorry.
I wanted to be a dancer when I was a kid.
I was never given that opportunity.
I had a really hard childhood,
and when I make decisions for my children,
I really just try to do it
based on...
what I think is best for my kids.
And unfortunately,
nobody did that for me
as a girl growing up,
and I really think it's important
that I do it for my girls.
Are you gonna be okay?
All right.
CHLOE: I was trying
to stay strong for my mom
'cause I didn't want to cry
and then make her even more upset.
Chloe, I don't know what all that's about,
and all that hugging and all that crying
and all that carrying on, is ridiculous.
Who's in there?
Who's leaving at 8:45 tonight?
-ABBY: Maddie.
You're an amazing dancer.
You're Junior Miss Dance of Pennsylvania.
Right now,
you should never be leaving early.
This is what's important.
This is your life right now, yes?
You need to be in tap in two minutes.
Go.
CHLOE: I feel like
I just need a break sometimes,
and she's pushing me to an upper level
that I didn't know I should be at yet.
But I feel like
I should take the challenge.
(upbeat music playing)
This down. Let's go stand over here.
Come on.
Today we're leaving
for StarQuest in Lancaster.
This is gonna be very conservative.
I feel that the costumes
are gonna be very low key
and the dances as well.
CHRISTI: The other girls
competing are probably
going to be wearing, you know,
gowns from head to toe,
and here we come naked.
Oh, check out her hair.
-(laughter)
-Hi, girls.
-Nice hair.
-Everybody ready?
Yes, you have everything?
-Costumes? Shoes.
-Nope, we left those at home.
Even though I love
the dance "Electricity,"
and I'm fine with the costumes,
I don't know how well
it's going to go over in Lancaster.
I don't wanna sit by the kids.
I'm sitting up here.
Oh, my God. My abs are broke.
This is all the room that we have?
-ABBY: Who's stuff is this?
-CATHY: That's mine.
Well, no one's gonna help me do this?
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Bus driver, can you hear me?
How come you this way?
Why didn't you go down (indistinct)
right on to the Parkway?
Oh, my God.
Now she's telling the bus driver
how to drive.
Abby's always yelling at the bus driver
because she thinks that
he doesn't know where he's going,
but I know he is
'cause we always get there.
On the Parkway,
it would have been a straight shot
and a lot faster.
I'm bus sick already.
-You're kidding me?
-No.
Maybe you should sit in the front.
CATHY: Uh, are we close to the turnpike?
ABBY: The way he's going, no.
Clo, can you come up here
so I can start your makeup?
We're gonna have
to do you on the bus.
MELISSA: Maddie and Chloe both
had to get hair and makeup done
on the bus.
It was very chaotic.
CHRISTI: Ooh, eyeliner might
be a little hard on the bus.
Bus driver, we're doing
eye makeup back here.
Steady on the road.
Is it hot in here, or is it just me?
It's you.
WOMAN: I do go out (indistinct)
Don't make those eyeballs at me.
Just be normal.
We're a little late.
She hasn't had time really
to warm up too much.
There's a brand new dance going on.
There's a ton of kids in her age division.
You're not cooperating.
Girls.
You need to go in the bathroom
and put your costume on,
but it's really tight in there.
Stay in one lane, bus driver.
Doing the eye makeup.
When Chloe comes out,
you're gonna go in.
We actually enjoy the chaos.
The fast quick changes.
MADDIE: Excusez moi.
(cries)
ABBY: Oh.
Well, Cathy, there's nothing we can do.
-CATHY: I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
-I know how you feel.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: StarQuest Competition
is one of those competitions
where you could enter
as many routines as possible,
so it's a huge competition.
Go this way.
ABBY: And the girls will be judged
on their performance,
their technique, their costume,
their choreography.
(cymbal roll)
CHLOE: I'm really nervous that
maybe I won't hit all the turns
and remember the choreography.
I'm just--I feel kind of pressured.
(suspenseful music playing)
CHLOE: A lot of times I feel
compared to Maddie,
but I think it's unfair
because we're different people
so we shouldn't be compared.
When I'm dancing,
it should be about me,
and then when Maddie's dancing,
it should be about Maddie.
(applause)
ANNOUNCER:
And next up is number 107.5.
Chloe Lukasiak, "Baby Mine."
(cheering)
("Baby Mine" playing)
SINGER: ♪Ooh, ooh♪
♪I've gotta guy, and he's so fine♪
♪When it comes to loving ♪
♪ He takes his time♪
♪I don't care what my friends all say♪
♪I'm gonna have him anyway ♪
♪ 'Cause he's my baby♪
♪My baby couture♪
(applause)
SINGER: ♪We're talking about
my sweet baby, you♪
♪Embracing of joy♪
♪My baby♪
(cheering)
Hey, Clo. You did so good.
I'm so proud of you.
-Good job.
-CHRISTI: I'm very excited for you.
Thank you.
Watch your feet on the end
when we worked on that,
to the floor, the new part,
when you walk out.
-CHLOE: Okay.
-Yes? Otherwise, I thought it was good.
And Maddie, we wanna get her ready.
All right?
MADDIE: I sometimes get scared
of the person before me
when I'm dancing at a competition
because I'm not sure
if they're good or not.
And I kind of--
I don't know--I just kind
of get really nervous.
(piano music playing)
(indistinct announcement)
(cheering)
("Cry" playing)
SINGER:
♪Well, I, I guess it's been awhile ♪
♪Since I've seen the sunshine♪
♪Since I have smiled♪
♪And me, who's so well-versed♪
♪Is lost for words♪
♪And I♪
♪I don't wanna anything but cry♪
♪Oh, and I...♪
MELISSA: I'm so proud of Maddie.
I can't help but cry.
She's like a little angel.
SINGER: ♪Oh, I'm so low♪
♪I'm almost to the bottom♪
♪Oh, no♪
♪Where'd it go?♪
♪Even my soul has left my body♪
♪And I♪
♪I don't wanna do anything but cry♪
(applause)
(cheering)
If I had to evaluate Chloe
and Maddie's performance,
it was neck and neck.
They both did an outstanding job today.
They came ready to perform,
and ready to compete,
and that's what they did.
-(cymbal roll)
-Hey.
ABBY: Hey, Maddie.
Good job.
Good girl.
I'm so proud of you.
That was good.
-How'd it feel?
-MADDIE: Good.
CHRISTI: No matter
how successful Chloe,
she's never successful
enough in Abby's eyes.
If Chloe doesn't prevail or win a category
or doesn't dance as well
as another child, Maddie.
You know, and she throws that
in Chloe's face all the time,
and it's not fair.
(cheering)
(cymbal roll)
(tribal music playing)
CHRISTI:
Chloe is definitely in the competition
for the best dancer in the group,
and not Maddie and Chloe
go back and forth.
On any given day it could
be either one of them.
ANNOUNCER:
And your first place is...
(indistinct chatter)
...number 206.5, Maddie.
(cheering)
(uplifting music playing)
Thank you so much for everything.
ABBY: Of course
Maddie came out on top.
I expect nothing less.
It takes time and energy
and perseverance,
and the kid has it.
I'm so proud of you, baby.
(cheering)
-Hey.
-Yeah.
-WOMAN: Another win.
-Good job, yes.
Now everybody, we need to go
get it together for the group number
before you go backstage.
CATHY: My biggest fear today
with Vivi going on stage shortly
is that she's going
to forget the dance.
-All right, what am I doing here?
-Just keep your eyes shut.
Keep your eyes shut, pumpkin.
I'm nervous for Vivi,
but she's like her mother.
She's gorgeous, she's talented,
she's a hard worker,
and she will persevere.
Oh, Vivi. Come on. It's okay.
VIVI: I have to go to a lot
of places for competition
and sometimes I wish
I could just stay home.
(dance music playing)
SINGER: ♪Wish that I could figure out♪
♪What the heck is going on♪
♪One day everything is cool♪
♪Next day we can't get along♪
♪Why can't we all be friends?♪
♪Why can't we just give in?♪
♪Why can't we?♪
♪Tell me why can't we be friends?♪
(cheering)
CATHY: I was a little concerned
when we came into this
that perhaps McKenzie,
the little duet partner,
was going to be head
and shoulders above Vivi.
And I don't think she is.
Well, I'm really proud
that you remembered it.
Yes? I think we have a long way to go,
but I'm glad I watched it.
You know what?
I need to get going for the other girls
so let's get back
to the dressing room quick...
Let's go tell your sister how you did.
-...and get them ready.
-CATHY: Okay.
(upbeat music playing)
(cheering)
CHRISTI: This week the group
is in the 9 to 12 age category.
The costume is completely
age inappropriate.
The gestures and the movement
the dance is unacceptable.
Okay, go change.
HOLLY: I'm trying
to be supportive of my child.
I want her to do well.
I want her to perform
to the best of her ability on stage.
I'm conflicted.
ABBY: Girls, you're wearing
two piece costumes.
Either sit down and do 100 sit-ups
or paint the abs on.
One or the other, let's go.
This week the girls
really need to bring it.
They need to hit every turn,
they need to look older,
they need to look sophisticated,
and they need to make it all look easy.
HOLLY: I think the whole makeup,
the costumes, and the package
of the presentation
will definitely lend itself
to being disqualified
because there's always a clause
about the appropriateness of the material
matching the age group.
ABBY: Six, seven, eight, and one.
I hope I'm wrong.
I hope Abby knows what she's doing.
I hope the girls come out successful.
I don't wanna be the one
making them feel bad.
I want them to go out
and be confident,
but I'm just wondering
what mixed messages
we're sending to a bunch of little girls.
I mean, they really just don't get
because they're doing
what they're told to do,
but then you stand there as an adult
and you watch every man
in the lobby like rubber neck
as those girls walk by.
(drum hit)
(ballad music playing)
CHRISTI: Last week at the West Coast,
we're doing a little doll dance
and a sweet little dress.
You know, Abby sees what's out there
and all of a sudden
we're dressed like streetwalkers,
and we're here in Lancaster,
home of the Amish,
in these horrifying outfits.
It's just so inappropriate, it's unreal.
Timing, timing, timing, timing.
All right. Stretch the foot on the turns.
All right, let's go. Do not rehearse.
Today's the competition.
We're here in Lancaster, Pennsylvania,
at StarQuest,
and I just think that we definitely
have this thing sewed up.
(upbeat music playing)
(dramatic music playing)
MELISSA:
I'm really proud of this number
because they've only been
working on it for a week.
And I think it's gonna be a clean sweep.
I think it's fabulous.
(applause)
ANNOUNCER: And next up,
junior small group jazz "Electricity."
(cheering)
(jazz music playing)
SINGER: ♪You♪
♪You have caused a fire in your eyes♪
♪Oh, baby, let's just dance, dance♪
♪Let's just dance, baby♪
♪I just wanna dance,
dance, dance, dance♪
♪Can you feel it?♪
♪Can you take it?♪
♪Can you embrace it?♪
♪All this electricity♪
♪I don't really care♪
♪Take me♪
♪Take me there♪
♪Can you feel it?♪
♪Can you take it?♪
♪Baby, it's so electric
so come and play with me♪
♪More and more♪
♪It's feeling so right, right, right♪
♪So baby too♪
HOLLY: This is definitely not a dance
I want anyone
from my school seeing my daughter
performing at all, ever.
SINGER: ♪Hey, go, go stereo♪
♪Stereo, go♪
Oh, wow.
SINGER: ♪Don't go stereo♪
♪Stereo go la, la, la♪
♪Baby, let's just dance, dance♪
♪Let's just dance, baby♪
♪I just wanna dance,
dance, dance, dance♪
♪Can you feel it?♪
♪Can you take it?♪
♪Can you come embrace it?♪
♪All this electricity?♪
♪Do it right now♪
♪Right now, turn the volume up now♪
♪Give me your electricity♪
♪Go electric♪
♪So come and play with me♪
(cheering)
MELISSA: My Maddie doesn't even know
what sexy means.
I mean, she just is dancing cute
and shaking her little butt,
and she just enjoys it.
ANNOUNCER: Next we have
your top five junior small groups.
HOLLY: At this point,
I don't know what to predict.
I can't imagine that dance
winning any type of award.
I worry they'll be disqualified
which has never happened before.
Fifth place, "My Boyfriend's Back"...
(cymbal roll)
ANNOUNCER: ...from the LADCO.
Your fourth place is number 474,
"The Balcony"
from Little Red Dancing School.
Your third place, number 497,
"Spiderman"
from Dance Depot.
Second place, "Rhythm."
(cymbal roll)
ANNOUNCER: Your first place junior
small group and the winner of $100 is...
(drumroll)
...number 468, "Ain't Nothing Wrong."
(cymbal roll)
Dance Depot.
MELISSA:
Our kids were robbed, definitely.
We out danced all the dancers
on stage today.
HOLLY: I think you danced really well.
(laughter)
You took the words
right out of my mouth, Nia.
Out of the mouths of babes.
CHRISTI:
This is a monumental moment for us.
We don't come in here
as the Abby Lee Dance Company
and not place in the top five.
I think the judges were really
setting a statement,
and, you know, it doesn't feel good
to get our butts kicked.
What do you think
Ms. Abby's gonna say?
-I don't know.
-No.
No, I don't wanna know.
CHRISTI: Abby's gonna get the score sheets
back from this competition.
We're gonna know
what the judges thoughts were,
and I guarantee you the judges
are thinking inappropriate.
It's not nice to be up there
and not being the overall, is it?
You're not used to that,
and you know what?
Maybe those judges didn't like you.
You know?
I don't know. Maybe I didn't like
what they had on today.
I don't know.
I thought they looked fabulous.
I thought it was a hot number.
I thought it was exciting.
I thought it was 2011.
I thought they did a great job.
Thank you very much.
Go ahead and head upstairs.
Try to get some pictures.
Can we really eat?
Abby, I really need to see you right now,
please.
Christi and I need to talk to you.
Over here's a little bit more quiet.
-We can talk over here.
-ABBY: Okay.
Abby, I know I respect your creativity
and your talent,
but that was over the top
inappropriate for little girls.
I think you and I both know
that left me very uncomfortable
to see my little girl
on stage gyrating,
smacking her butt
in front of everybody.
When--when they went down
and opened their legs,
I almost walked out of there.
I mean, that's--
And you know what's so weird,
is your child loved it
-and wanted to do it.
-Yeah, I know
but our job as her mentors
is to protect them, not encourage that.
Exactly.
It really is.
ABBY: I am the coach.
I am their teacher,
I make creative decisions,
and I have to stand by them.
If you don't like it,
get up and walk out of the auditorium.
She is a child.
She is nine-years-old.
Yes, and go ask your nine--excuse me.
Go ask your nine-year-old
if she likes what she's wearing.
CHRISTI: It doesn't matter
what our kids think.
-They're nine.
-It's not their decision.
It's our responsibility as their parents.
Is to protect them.
People are looking at us.
They are judging us.
Like, who knows
what they would wear because--
They're judging you?
Absolutely. I'm the mother.
I let her go on stage like that.
Well then maybe
you should not come.
-CHRISTI: Okay.
-You need to stay at home,
and your daughter should come.
-Yes.
-Absolutely not.
-CHRISTI: Absolutely not.
-Absolutely.
CHRISTI: Abby's like the Queen of Hearts,
off with their heads.
Like, she's never reasonable.
She never can understand
and listen to somebody else's
point of view.
It's always like done.
I'm a mom, I'm emotional,
and I cannot stand to see
my child like this.
-Okay, let me ask--
-It's too over the top,
and I need to go right now, Abby,
because I'm just a little traumatized.
ABBY: Christi and Holly
verbally assaulted me.
When a parent opens their mouth,
they are ruining their child,
and that's what they need
to think about.
Everyone is replaceable.
That's the first thing
you learn in my studio,
and that is the last time
it will ever happen.
It should not have happened.
Chloe absolutely loves the costume,
loves what she's doing,
is a very talented little girl,
but her mother's going to ruin her.
It's obvious.
(cymbal roll)
(suspenseful music playing)
(theme music playing)